Ops procedures - document enable protocol trace for router/broker (#4423)
EnMasseProject/enmasse: documentation/modules/proc-enable-protocol-trace-router.adoc

//
// assembly-ops-procedures.adoc

[id='enable-protocol-trace-router-{context}']
= Enabling an AMQP protocol trace for the router

For diagnostic purposes, it is possible to enable an AMQP protocol trace for a router.   This can be helpful to
to troubleshoot issues with clients not connecting or problems sending or receiving messages.  There are two
ways this can be achieved.

* It is possible to enable/disable the protocol trace, dynamically, for a single router using a `qdmange` command. This
method avoids the need to restart the router.  The setting will be lost next time the router restarts.

* Alternatively, configuration can be applied to the  `standardinfaconfig` that enables the protocol trace for all
routers of  all the address spaces that use that `standardinfaconfig`.  This method will cause all the routers to
restart.

Both procedures are described next.

WARNING: The protocol trace is verbose.  Enabling it increases the CPU overhead of the router(s) and may decrease
messaging performance. It may also increase the disk space requirements associated with any log retention system.
Therefore it is recommended to enable the protocol trace for as shorter time as possible.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a sub-header for each? The .Procedure renders in a small italic font

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-ops-procedures.adoc

[id='enable-protocol-trace-router-{context}']
= Enabling an AMQP protocol trace for the router

> For diagnostic purposes, it is possible to enable an AMQP protocol trace for a router.   This can be helpful to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For diagnostic purposes, you can enable an AMQP protocol trace for a router.   This can be helpful
```

> to troubleshoot issues with clients not connecting or problems sending or receiving messages.  There are two

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
when troubleshooting issues related to client connectivity or with sending and receiving messages.  There are two
```

ways this can be achieved.

> * It is possible to enable/disable the protocol trace, dynamically, for a single router using a `qdmange` command. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can dynamically enable/disable the protocol trace for a single router using a `qdmange` command. This
```

> method avoids the need to restart the router.  The setting will be lost next time the router restarts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
method avoids the need to restart the router.  The setting will be lost the next time the router restarts.
```

> * Alternatively, configuration can be applied to the  `standardinfaconfig` that enables the protocol trace for all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Alternatively, you can apply configuration to the `standardinfraconfig` that enables the protocol trace for all
``

> routers of  all the address spaces that use that `standardinfaconfig`.  This method will cause all the routers to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
routers of all the address spaces that use that `standardinfraconfig`.  This method will cause all the routers to
```

restart.

Both procedures are described next.

> WARNING: The protocol trace is verbose.  Enabling it increases the CPU overhead of the router(s) and may decrease

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WARNING: Enabling the protocol trace increases the CPU overhead of the router(s) and may decrease
```

messaging performance. It may also increase the disk space requirements associated with any log retention system.

> Therefore it is recommended to enable the protocol trace for as shorter time as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is recommended that you enable the protocol trace for as short a time as possible.
```

> == Dynamic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Dynamically enabling the protocol trace for a single router
```

.Procedure

ifeval::["{cmdcli}" == "oc"]
. Log in as a service operator:
+
[subs="attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} login -u developer
----

. Change to the project where {ProductName} is installed:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} project _{ProductNamespace}_
----
endif::[]

. List all router Pods and choose the Pod for the relevant address space:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{cmdcli} get pods -l name=qdrouterd -o go-template --template '{{range .items}}{{.metadata.name}}{{"\t"}}{{.metadata.annotations.addressSpace}}{{"\n"}}{{end}}'
----

. Enable the protocol trace for a single router:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
echo '{"enable":"trace+"}' | {cmdcli} exec qdrouterd-_podname_ --stdin=true --tty=false -- qdmanage update -b 127.0.0.1:7777 --type=log --name=log/SERVER --stdin
----

> . Display the logs for the Pod which will include the protocol trace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Display the logs for the Pod that will include the protocol trace:
```

+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{cmdcli} logs _pod_
----

. Disable the protocol trace:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
echo '{"enable":null}' | {cmdcli} exec qdrouterd-_podname_ --stdin=true --tty=false -- qdmanage update -b 127.0.0.1:7777 --type=log --name=log/SERVER --stdin
----

> == `StandardInfraConfig` environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Enabling the protocol trace for the `StandardInfraConfig` environment variable
```

Author: ```suggestion
== Enabling the protocol trace using the `StandardInfraConfig` environment variable
```

Reviewer 2: This change look good.

.Procedure

ifeval::["{cmdcli}" == "oc"]
. Log in as a service operator:
+
[subs="attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} login -u developer
----

. Change to the project where {ProductName} is installed:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} project _{ProductNamespace}_
----
endif::[]

. Determine the `addresspaceplan` name for the address space concerned:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} get addressspace -n _namespace_ _addressspacename_ --output 'jsonpath={.spec.plan}{"\n"}'
----

. Determine the `standardinfraconfig` name for the `addressspaceplan` name:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} get addressspaceplan _addressspaceplan_ --output 'jsonpath={.spec.infraConfigRef}{"\n"}'
----

> . Enable the protocol trace for all the routers of the all the address spaces using that use that `standardinfaconfig`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Enable the protocol trace for all the routers of the all the address spaces using that `standardinfraconfig`:
```

+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{cmdcli} patch standardinfraconfig _standardinfraconfigname_ --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"router":{"podTemplate":{"spec":{"containers":[{"env":[{"name":"PN_TRACE_FRM","value":"true"}],"name":"router"}]}}}}}'
----

> . Display the logs for the Pod which will include the protocol trace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Display the logs for the Pod that will include the protocol trace:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-ops-procedures.adoc

[id='enable-protocol-trace-router-{context}']
= Enabling an AMQP protocol trace for the router

For diagnostic purposes, you can enable an AMQP protocol trace for a router.   This can be helpful
when troubleshooting issues related to client connectivity or with sending and receiving messages.  There are two
ways this can be achieved.

* You can dynamically enable/disable the protocol trace for a single router using a `qdmange` command. This
method avoids the need to restart the router.  The setting will be lost the next time the router restarts.

* Alternatively, you can apply configuration to the `standardinfraconfig` that enables the protocol trace for all

> ``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``
```

> ``

Reviewer 2: Are these quotation marks required?

Author: Fixed
